## Universally quantified properties

As mentioned before, org.scalacheck.Prop.forAll creates universally quantified properties. forAll takes a function as parameter, and creates a property out of it that can be tested with the check method. The function should return Boolean or another property, and can take parameters of any types, as long as there exist implicit Arbitrary instances for the types. By default, ScalaCheck has instances for common types like Int, String, List, etc, but it is also possible to define your own Arbitrary instances. This will be described in a later section.

Here are some examples of properties defined with help of the org.scalacheck.Prop.forAll method.

```scala
import org.scalacheck.Prop.forAll

val propReverseList = forAll { l: List[String] => l.reverse.reverse == l }

val propConcatString = forAll { (s1: String, s2: String) =>
  (s1 + s2).endsWith(s2)
}
```

When you run check on the properties, ScalaCheck generates random instances of the function parameters and evaluates the results, reporting any failing cases.

You can also give forAll a specific data generator. See the following example:

```scala
import org.scalacheck._

val smallInteger = Gen.choose(0,100)

val propSmallInteger = Prop.forAll(smallInteger)(n => n >= 0 && n <= 100)
```

smallInteger defines a generator that generates integers between 0 and 100, inclusively. Generators will be described closer in a later section. propSmallInteger simply specifies that each integer generated should be in the correct range. This way of using the forAll method is good to use when you want to control the data generation by specifying exactly which generator that should be used, and not rely on a default generator for the given type.
