## Labelling Properties

Sometimes it can be difficult to decide exactly what is wrong when a property fails, especially if the property is complex, with many conditions. In such cases, you can label the different parts of the property, so ScalaCheck can tell you exactly what part is failing. Look at the following example, where the different conditions of the property have been labeled differently:

```scala
val complexProp = forAll { (m: Int, n: Int) =>
  val res = myMagicFunction(n, m)
    (res >= m)    :| "result > #1" &&
	  (res >= n)    :| "result > #2" &&
	    (res < m + n) :| "result not sum"
		}
```

		We can see the label if we define myMagicFunction incorrectly and then check the property:

```scala
scala> def myMagicFunction(n: Int, m: Int) = n + m
		myMagicFunction: (Int,Int)Int
		
		scala> complexProp.check
		! Falsified after 0 passed tests.
		> Label of failing property: "result not sum"
		> ARG_0: "0"
		> ARG_1: "0"
```

It is also possible to write the label before the conditions like this:

```scala
val complexProp = forAll { (m: Int, n: Int) =>
		  val res = myMagicFunction(n, m)
		    ("result > #1"    |: res >= m) &&
			  ("result > #2"    |: res >= n) &&
			    ("result not sum" |: res < m + n)
				}
```

The labeling operator can also be used to inspect intermediate values used in the properties, which can be very useful when trying to understand why a property fails. ScalaCheck always presents the generated property arguments (ARG_0, ARG_1, etc), but sometimes you need to quickly see the value of an intermediate calculation. See the following example, which tries to specify multiplication in a somewhat naive way:

```scala
val propMul = forAll { (n: Int, m: Int) =>
				  val res = n*m
				    ("evidence = " + res) |: all(
					    "div1" |: m != 0 ==> (res / m == n),
						    "div2" |: n != 0 ==> (res / n == m),
							    "lt1"  |: res > m,
								    "lt2"  |: res > n
									  )
									  }
```

Here we have four different conditions, each with its own label. Instead of using the && operator the conditions are combined in an equivalent way by using the Prop.all method. The implication operators are used to protect us from zero-divisions. A fifth label is added to the combined property to record the result of the multiplication. When we check the property, ScalaCheck tells us the following:

```scala
scala> propMul.check
									  ! Falsified after 0 passed tests.
									  > Labels of failing property:
									  "lt1"
									  "evidence = 0"
									  > ARG_0: "0"
									  > ARG_1: "0"
```

As you can see, you can add as many labels as you want to your property, ScalaCheck will present them all if the property fails.
