# Test Case Minimisation

One interesting feature of ScalaCheck is that if it finds an argument that falsifies a property, it tries to minimise that argument before it is reported. This is done automatically when you use the Prop.property and Prop.forAll methods to create properties, but not if you use Prop.forAllNoShrink. Let's look at the difference between these methods, by specifying a property that says that no list has duplicate elements in it. This is of course not true, but we want to see the test case minimisation in action!

```scala
import org.scalacheck.Arbitrary.arbitrary
import org.scalacheck.Prop.{forAll, forAllNoShrink}

val p1 = forAllNoShrink(arbitrary[List[Int]])(l => l == l.removeDuplicates)

val p2 = forAll(arbitrary[List[Int]])(l => l == l.removeDuplicates)

val p3 = forAll( (l: List[Int]) => l == l.removeDuplicates )
```

Now, run the tests:

```scala
scala> p1.check
! Falsified after 11 passed tests:
> ARG_0 = "List(8, 0, -1, -3, -8, 8, 2, -10, 9, 1, -8)"

scala> p2.check
! Falsified after 4 passed tests:
> ARG_0 = "List(-1, -1)" (2 shrinks)

scala> p3.check
! Falsified after 7 passed tests:
> ARG_0 = "List(-5, -5)" (3 shrinks)
```

In all cases, ScalaCheck found a list with duplicate elements that falsified the property. However, in the two second cases the list was shrunk into a list with just two identical elements in it, which is the minimal failing test case for the given property. Clearly, it's much easier to find a bug if you are given a simple test case that causes the failure.

Just as you can define implicit Arbitrary generators for your own types, you can also define default shrinking methods. This is done by defining an implicit method that returns a Shrink[T] instance. This is done by using the Shrink(...) factory method, which as its only parameter takes a function and returns an instance of Shrink[T]. In turn, the function should take a value of the given type T, and return a Stream of shrank variants of the given value. As an example, look at the implicit Shrink instance for a tuple as it is defined in ScalaCheck:

```scala
/** Shrink instance of 2-tuple */
implicit def shrinkTuple2[T1, T2](implicit s1: Shrink[T1], s2: Shrink[T2]): Shrink[(T1, T2)] = Shrink {
  case (t1, t2) =>
    (for (x1 <- shrink(t1)) yield (x1, t2)) append
      (for (x2 <- shrink(t2)) yield (t1, x2))
}
```

When implementing a shrinking method, one has to be careful to only returned smaller variants of the value, since the shrinking algorithm otherwise could loop. ScalaCheck has implicit shrinking methods commons types such as integers and lists.
