# Generators

Generators are responsible for generating test data in ScalaCheck, and are represented by the org.scalacheck.Gen class. You need to know how to use this class if you want ScalaCheck to generate data of types that are not supported by default, or if you want to use the forAll method mentioned above, to state properties about a specific subset of a type. In the Gen object, there exists several methods for creating new and modifying existing generators. We will show how to use some of them in this sections. For a more complete reference of what is available, please see the API scaladoc.

A generator can be seen simply as a function that takes some generation parameters, and (maybe) returns a generated value. That is, the type Gen[T] may be thought of as a function of type Gen.Params => Option[T]. However, the Gen class contains additional methods to make it possible to map generators, use them in for-comprehensions and so on. Conceptually, though, you should think of generators simply as functions, and the combinators in the Gen object can be used to create or modify the behaviour of such generator functions.

Lets see how to create a new generator. The best way to do it is to use the generator combinators that exist in the org.scalacheck.Gen module. These can be combined using a for-comprehension. Suppose you need a generator which generates a tuple that contains two random integer values, one of them being at least twice as big as the other. The following definition does this:

```scala
val myGen = for {
  n <- Gen.choose(10,20)
    m <- Gen.choose(2*n, 500)
	} yield (n,m)
```

You can create generators that picks one value out of a selection of values. The following generator generates a vowel:

```scala
	val vowel = Gen.oneOf('A', 'E', 'I', 'O', 'U', 'Y')
	
	val vowel: Gen[Char] = 'A' | 'E' | 'I' | 'O' | 'U' | 'Y'
```

The oneOf method creates a generator that randomly picks one of its parameters each time it generates a value. You can also use the | operator of the Gen class to achieve the same thing. Notice that plain values are implicitly converted to generators (which always generates that value) if needed.
	
	The distribution is uniform, but if you want to control it you can use the frequency combinator:

```scala
	val vowel = Gen.frequency(
	  (3, 'A'),
	    (4, 'E'),
		  (2, 'I'),
		    (3, 'O'),
			  (1, 'U'),
			    (1, 'Y')
				)
```
Now, the vowel generator will generate E:s more often than Y:s. Roughly, 4/14 of the values generated will be E:s, and 1/14 of them will be Y:s.
