## Collecting Generated Test Data

It is possible to collect statistics about what kind of test data that has been generated during property evaluation. This is useful if you want to inspect the test case distribution, and make sure your property tests all different kinds of cases, not just trivial ones.

For example, you might have a method that operates on lists, and which behaves behaves differently if the list is sorted or not. Then it is crucial to know if ScalaCheck tests the method with both sorted and unsorted lists. Let us first define an ordered method to help us state the property.

```scala
def ordered(l: List[Int]) = l == l.sort(_ > _)
```
Now state the property, using Prop.classify to collect interesting information on the generated data. The property itself is not very exciting in this example, we just state that a double reverse should return the original list.

```scala
import org.scalacheck.Prop._

val myProp = forAll { l: List[Int] =>
  classify(ordered(l), "ordered") {
      classify(l.length > 5, "large", "small") {
	        l.reverse.reverse == l
			    }
				  }
				  }
```

Check the property, and watch the statistics printed by ScalaCheck:

```scala
				  scala> myProp.check
				  + OK, passed 100 tests.
				  > Collected test data:
				  78% large
				  16% small, ordered
				  6% small
```
Here ScalaCheck tells us that the property hasn't been tested with any large and ordered list (which is no surprise, since the lists are randomised). Maybe we need to use a special generator that generates also large ordered lists, if that is important for testing our method thoroughly. In this particular case it doesn't matter, since the implementation of reverse probably doesn't care about wether the list is sorted or not.
				  
				  We can also collect data directly, using the Prop.collect method. In this dummy property we just want to see if ScalaCheck distributes the generated data evenly:

```scala
				  val dummyProp = forAll(Gen.choose(1,10)) { n =>
				    collect(n) {
					    n == n
						  }
						  }
						  
						  scala> dummyProp.check
						  + OK, passed 100 tests.
						  > Collected test data:
						  13% 7
						  13% 5
						  12% 1
						  12% 6
						  11% 2
						  9% 9
						  9% 3
						  8% 10
						  7% 8
						  6% 4
```

As we can see, the frequency for each number is around 10%, which seems reasonable.
